Hello and welcome back.
And today we'll be working with order by ORDER BY is a very useful statement and ask you well but it's
a pretty brief one as well.
There's not much to explain about.
So let's dive straight into it.
As you can see I have console games database opened up and console games ready to roll.
So let's go create new querido and the first thing I want to do is I want to show I want to select everything
from and then I just want to say console games.
Now if you run this what we'll get back is all 12 columns all filled with data or most of them feel
that they add up and they will not be organized.
They will be displayed in a pretty messy way.
So yeah as you can see everything is here out of order.
And this is where.
ORDER BY statement comes in play.
So all we need to do is we need to type ORDER BY and then we need to select a column that will want
the whole table to be ordered by.
So in our case the column that makes most sense is game rank.
Global sales is the same as game rank but game rank just displays a nice neat number of a whole integer
1 2 3 etc..
So let's go ahead and say that we want this to be ordered by game rank.
And in the standing order ascending order means that the lower values will be displayed first and the
higher values will be just fate lost.
This is done in our case just to show game ranked number one will be the first row in the table.
And as you can see now it follows one another and it's all pretty and neat.
And you can also see that the global sales will correspond to this by constantly descending.
But now what if we want to flip the order so we have the game rank the highest game rank the worst game
rank displayed first.
Well in this case we just want to ride this Sunday and that way what we'll get is the flip version of
this table.
So we'll have the game rank sixteen thousand six hundred.
There it is.
We have the game rank sixteen thousand six hundred first.
And as you can see the global sales it made is pretty low.
Obviously this data was collected from real world in millions of copies sold.
So there might be some mistakes here that have been made.
And that's why for example this road is not the last place even though it seems like it has to be there.
How can we use order buy from as well point of view from data management perspective.
Well there's a lot of uses to it.
And the bigger databases you work with the more common data every row has the more order by will come
into play with this database.
The easiest example is that we can say we want it to be ordered by platform ascending.
And then we wanted to also be ordered by Game year.
And if we leave the game year before anything so we don't specify that it has to be ascending.
It will basically by default decide to be ascending.
So you can just leave it like this.
I just liked it but ascending or descending to check my code for mistakes later on.
So now what does that do to us.
It will give us a very nice looking table where the rank is out of order.
The game name is out of water and everything else is pretty much out of order except that it's all organized
by the platform name and the year in which the game was released.
So as you can see the first several dozen rows are all from the twenty six hundred platform and the
games are organized but the year they were released.
So this is pretty neat isn't it.
For For example if you can see that the game you know should be descending.
This will give us all the platforms and the first game you see on that platform for that platform will
be the last game released for the platform.
So for example we can see that for the platform.
Twenty six hundred game CLAX was released last.
So there are no more games after this.
And then we can scroll further down to find Fredy.
And in Freedia as we can see that they game called puzzle and Dragons was released last but since the
data had this from 2015 it does not mean that this is the last game to be released.
This is the last game to be included in this dataset.
So as you can see there are a lot of different uses for this.
You can also order by names even characters so it doesn't have to be numbers necessarily even though
it just makes more sense to order by numbers rather than letters.
But as you can see if you run this code right now it will order all these games by game name ascending.
So first we have all the symbols go.
So like come like dots commas slashes.
Then we have all numbers go from zero to nine and only then at the very bottom we start having letters
come in.
So a b c d and so on.
So we have a combination of letters.
It will basically go a B a C and so on.
It makes sense.
A lot of programming languages have order by even Excel works that a lot of sorting tools teach you
how to use order by ascending descending.
So I don't think you'll have much problems with this.
But remember that there is far more uses to order by than just the general one that order by the primary
key of the table.
So never forget that and try to find more ways to display the data you need quicker and more efficient.
I hope you enjoyed today's lecture and I'll see you in the next one.